so in these next few tutorials I'm going
to go through the new sculpting tools in
cinema 4d and this is an image I found
on Google and I think it would make
quite a good starting point because it's
quite simple 3d model to build so the
first thing you do before you start any
kind of sculpting would be to build a
base mesh for this 3d model and the base
mesh is basically like a very rough cage
of this 3d model and it really doesn't
have to be very detailed and sometimes
it doesn't even have to resemble the
final product it just basically has to
have clean flowing topology and I'm
going to show you what I mean by
topology so here's an image some
examples of good topology and bad
topology if you look at this head here
this is an example of very good topology
because the polygons are mostly quads
and they're kind of everything's flowing
around the face as if it's kind of
following the face muscle structure
around the eyes and around the mouth it
just looks accurate and all the lines
are flowing and we haven't got any kind
of triangles or angles although it's
okay to use triangles and angles in some
cases but as a general rule of thumb is
good to stick with quads and the quad is
basically a four-sided polygon like this
one here and looking over here is an
example of very bad apology as you can
see if we look around the mouth we can
see there's absolutely no flow
everything is just straight down and
along we've got some kind of
triangulation going on here a few
triangles there triangles here and it's
just generally a very bad example of
building a 3d model so I'm just gonna
put this to the side and bring back my
image so if I was gonna create a base
mesh for this model I probably create an
indent for the mouth and I definitely
create an extrusion for the ears that's
because when you're sculpting you're
basically carrying out displacement
mapping if you extrude something out
like that ear you can't then extrude
sideways as well so
say if we were to create a horn here
using displacement mapping we couldn't
then start pulling it out this way and
if we did it would basically rise up
from the base and you'll probably grasp
what I mean as we kind of go for this
tutorial but for now I'm just gonna
build a very quick base mesh to explain
better what I mean
so I'm just going to start with a cube
and I'm gonna make it editable and I'm
probably going to play back the video
quite fast because this isn't a polygon
modeling tutorial I just want to get to
the sculpting parts pretty quickly
and I'm just gonna stop the video here
so basically when you're creating a base
mesh the best tools are extrude an
extrude inner so for creating the mouth
I'm just gonna select this polygon and
I'm just going to extrude inner like
that and then go to extrude and just
push it back and that's basically all
the topology we need for the mouth and
then for the ear I'm gonna use the same
extrude inner like that and then I'm
gonna extrude out the ear whoops
like that and you could probably even
get away with that but I'm just going to
keep refining the model
and I'm just gonna stop the video there
something like this is basically all we
need as you can see it doesn't look like
our reference image that much but it's
got everything we need basically the
topology is clean it's kind of flowing
nicely and the magic basically happens
in the sculpting stage and we'll go
through that in the next tutorial